Format description DSTK superframe structure
--------------------------------------------


This document described the general format of the DSTK superframe
structure.


* General overview

The D-STAR switching matrix toolkit is an application toolkit
consisting of multiple applications that communicate with
eachother via UDP multicast frames.
These frames are called DSTK "superframes".

Every DSTK superframe consists of one or more "DSTK subframe". A
subframe carries one particular unit of information for a certain
time-perdiode.
Examples are 20 ms of PCM-enocded or AMBE voice, D-STAR routing
information, slow-speed text or application status updates.

Every DSTK subframe is preceded by a 20 octet "DSTK header" containing
meta-information about the data inside the DSTK data part.


* Some rules:

- If a superframe contains multiple subframes, the information in these
subframes must be related.

An example of a valid DSTK superframe containing multiple subframes is
- 20 ms of PCM audio, as part of an audio-stream.
- D-STAR routing information ("MY", "UR", "RPT1", "RPT2", ...) of that
audio-stream
- slow-speed data information related to that particular audio-stream.

- If a DSTK superframe contains multiple subframes, a "DSTK signature"
is placed inbetween every subframe to help syncronisation.
The DSTK signature is simply a 4 octet string containing the text
DSTK.

- An application that processes data from one format to another MUST
copy all the DSTK subfields on which is does not act to the new
stream.



* DSTK Header structure

This document describes the DSTK header, which is placed in front of
every information unit carried in a DSTK subframe.
The format of the data carried in the DSTK subframe is described in
a seperate document per type of frame.


The header of a DSTK superframe has a fixed length of 20 octets and
is defined below.

Additional information can also be found in the "include/dstk.h"
header file.

Fields containing numeric information of a size larger then 1 octet
are format in the "IP network format". Use the "hton"  and "ntoh"
functions to convert information from the architecture integer
format to the correct network format.


- octet 0: version (8 bits)
Currently, only version 1 is defined.

- octet 1: flags (8 bits)
This contains frags concerning the DSTK superframe structure.
Currently, only one flag is defined: "last" ("this subframe is
last DSTK subframe of DSTK superframe")


- octet 2-3: origin (16 bits)
Identified the "origin" of a stream, i.e. an indication where
a stream has originated before entering the Switching Matrix.
Examples are "RPC" (repeater controller of a i-com based D-STAR
repeater), "Conference/Dplus" (dplus reflector), "local file" and
"analog feed: FM repeater".
See the "include/dstk.h" header file for a full list.

The goal of the origin identification is to allow enforcing
policy-descisions on exporting streams once a stream leaves the D-STAR
Switching Matrix.
For that reason, the origin of a stream MAY NOT change during processing
in the switching-matrix, even when information is converted from one
format into another.


- octet 4-7: type (32 bits)
Identifies the type or format of the information carried in the
DSTK subframe.
Examples are "PCM voice", "AMBE voice", "DTMF information" and
"application heartbeat message".

As information can be converted from one format to another by
processes in the D-STAR switching matrix system, it is possible
that the "type" identification of a stream changes while
traveling through the DSTK.

DSTK type information also contains flags defining certain
features of the data contained in the DSTK subframe.

See the "include/dstk.h" header file for a full list of types
and options.


- octet 8-11:  sequence (32 bits)
Sequencing information of a DSTK frame in a DSTK stream.

This information can be addresses as one 32 bit field or two
concequent 16 bit fields.

The DSTK specification do not define how the DSTK subframe information
needs to be formatted.
Examples of sequence information are:
- a sequencial numbering of frames in a stream
- absolute time-information of frames in a stream.
The latter allows for syncronisation of multiple DSTK streams, even
when carried in seperate DSTK superframes.

For that reason, the DSTK sequence field is defined both a one single
32 bit field and as two 16 bit fields.


- octets 12-13: streamid1 (16 bits)
- octets 14-15: streamid2 (16 bits)
Octets 12 to 15 of the DSTK header is defined as two 16-bit streamid
fields.
This allows the streamid fields to provide information about
relationships between different streams:
- "parent-child relationship" when converting a stream from one format
into another
- "brother relationship" between multiple streams origination from
a common parent stream.

- octets 16-17: size (16 bits)
Size of the DSTK subframe.


- octet 18: undefined
- octet 19: undefined

These fields of the DSTK header is currently undefined and reserved for
future use.




DSTK structure Version 0.9.0, d.d. 11/Aug/2011

73
Kristoff - ON1ARF
